README.md, before:

# Specify Report Runner Service
This project implements a simple web service wrapper around the Jasper
Reports libraries for report and label generation in Specify 7.

Requirements
============
* Java JDK >= 1.7
* Apache Maven 2 

Test Service
============
After cloning the repository, build with `mvn compile`. The test
server can be started using the Maven Jetty plugin: `mvn
jetty:run`. The service will run on port `8080` on `localhost`
adapter. These values can be changed in `jetty.xml`. Because there is
no authentication, the report service should run on the same machine
as the Specify 7 server or on a private subnet and only bind an
address that is not routed externally.

In the Specify 7 (development branch) settings file, typically
`specifyweb/settings/local_specify_settings.py`, set the values
`REPORT_RUNNER_HOST` and `REPORT_RUNNER_PORT` appropriately and
restart. A *Reports* task will now be available on the taskbar at the
top of the Specify 7 web application.

Fonts
=====
Unless the report runner service is provided with the fonts used in a
report it will use built-in PDF fonts. The consequences range in
severity from slight differences in appearance to rendered text
overflowing bounding boxes resulting in truncation.

To provide fonts to be used by this service, a font extension jar file
can be added to `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/lib/` before compiling. There
is a good description of creating the font extension file at
http://javaskeleton.blogspot.com/2010/12/embedding-fonts-into-pdf-generated-by.html
If you follow the iReport instructions in that guide, be sure to
include the variants (italic, bold and bold italic) for each font added. 

Running as a service
=====================
Use the following *SystemD* script to start report runner service

PS: change User and home path to your needs.
```
[Unit]
Description=Specify Report Runner Service 
# Author Job Diogenes Ribeiro Borges
Wants=network.target
ConditionPathExists=/home/specify/report-runner-service

[Service]
User=specify
WorkingDirectory=/home/specify/report-runner-service
ExecStart=/usr/bin/mvn jetty:run

[Install]
Alias=ireportrunner.service
```

Missing Barcode Text
====================
When running with a headless JRE, there is a bug in the barbecue
barcode generation library that prevents the text value of a barcode
from be included even if that option is turned on in the report
definition. The bug has been
[fixed](https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue/commit/420f362ac2348b8a7cbb056e5d920317ce0a0ce1)
in the
[barbecue repository](https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue) in an
unreleased version, *1.9-dev*. The solution is to clone the barbecue
repository locally and build and install the maven artifact.

```
git clone https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue.git
cd barbecue/barbecue
mvn compile
mvn install
```

Then update the `pom.xml` in this repository to depend on version
*1.9-dev* instead of the currently released *1.5-beta1*.

Commit message:

add information about mounting font jar in docker container.

README.md, after:

# Specify Report Runner Service
This project implements a simple web service wrapper around the Jasper
Reports libraries for report and label generation in Specify 7.

Requirements
============
* Java JDK >= 1.7
* Apache Maven 2 

Test Service
============
After cloning the repository, build with `mvn compile`. The test
server can be started using the Maven Jetty plugin: `mvn
jetty:run`. The service will run on port `8080` on `localhost`
adapter. These values can be changed in `jetty.xml`. Because there is
no authentication, the report service should run on the same machine
as the Specify 7 server or on a private subnet and only bind an
address that is not routed externally.

In the Specify 7 (development branch) settings file, typically
`specifyweb/settings/local_specify_settings.py`, set the values
`REPORT_RUNNER_HOST` and `REPORT_RUNNER_PORT` appropriately and
restart. A *Reports* task will now be available on the taskbar at the
top of the Specify 7 web application.

Fonts
=====
Unless the report runner service is provided with the fonts used in a
report it will use built-in PDF fonts. The consequences range in
severity from slight differences in appearance to rendered text
overflowing bounding boxes resulting in truncation.

To provide fonts to be used by this service, a font extension jar file
can be added to `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/lib/` before compiling. There
is a good description of creating the font extension file at
http://javaskeleton.blogspot.com/2010/12/embedding-fonts-into-pdf-generated-by.html
If you follow the iReport instructions in that guide, be sure to
include the variants (italic, bold and bold italic) for each font added.

If using the report runner in a Docker container, the font extension
jar can be mounted into the container using a volume directive such
as:

```
docker run -p 8080 --name report-runner -d -v ./report-fonts.jar:/var/lib/jetty/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/lib/report-fonts.jar specifyconsortium/report-runner
```

Running as a service
=====================
Use the following *SystemD* script to start report runner service

PS: change User and home path to your needs.
```
[Unit]
Description=Specify Report Runner Service 
# Author Job Diogenes Ribeiro Borges
Wants=network.target
ConditionPathExists=/home/specify/report-runner-service

[Service]
User=specify
WorkingDirectory=/home/specify/report-runner-service
ExecStart=/usr/bin/mvn jetty:run

[Install]
Alias=ireportrunner.service
```

Missing Barcode Text
====================
When running with a headless JRE, there is a bug in the barbecue
barcode generation library that prevents the text value of a barcode
from be included even if that option is turned on in the report
definition. The bug has been
[fixed](https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue/commit/420f362ac2348b8a7cbb056e5d920317ce0a0ce1)
in the
[barbecue repository](https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue) in an
unreleased version, *1.9-dev*. The solution is to clone the barbecue
repository locally and build and install the maven artifact.

```
git clone https://github.com/barbecue-sf/barbecue.git
cd barbecue/barbecue
mvn compile
mvn install
```

Then update the `pom.xml` in this repository to depend on version
*1.9-dev* instead of the currently released *1.5-beta1*.
